hello welcome to the program I'm
Katherine banga we start with the
developing situation at gaza's largest
hospital in the last half hour the
Israeli military has confirmed its
operation against Hamas at the alifa
hospital is still currently underway
Israel says the hospital conceals an
underground Command Center used by Hamas
which is designated as a terrorist
organization by the United Kingdom
United States and several other
countries it's the claim doctors there
deny meanwhile in the US the White House
and the Pentagon say they now have
intelligence that Hamas and Palestinian
Islamic Jihad are operating from tunnels
below hospitals including alifa and that
they're also storing weapons there it's
the first time they have backed up
Israel's claims to this extent despite
its new intelligence the US says
hospitals and patients must be protected
in a tweet the Israel Defense Forces
said we can confirm that incubators baby
food and medical supplies brought by IDF
tanks from Israel have successfully
reached the shifa hospital our Medical
Teams and arabic speaking soldiers are
on the ground to ensure that these
supplies reach those in need the Israeli
military said it its actions at alifa
are precise and targeted the Gaza Strip
has been under sieged by Israel Defense
Forces since Hamas launched its attacks
in Israel on the 7th of O October our
correspondent in Gaza Rishi Abu ALU has
spoken to an eyewitness at the hospital
I made another contact with eyewitness
inside the hospital he said he saw six
tanks within inside the hospital and
about 100 Israeli commanders soldiers
they St the main emergency department of
the hospital he said uh one person of
them was speaking in Arabic shouting at
the people don't move don't move and
then they entered the the hospital after
4 days of besieging the hospitals with
tanks from all around it and cutting AIS
in and out today the BBC was told by two
eyewitnesses inside that the Israeli
soldier are storming five buildings of
the hospitals the one of the witnesses
he just told the BBC that I saw six
tanks and about over 100 Israeli
Commandos unit entering the main
Department emergency room and they were
shouting in Arabic don't move don't move
he said there was some shooting around
and they they they fire a smoke pomp in
the outskirt of the of the hospital and
then they started to move
inside well thousands of people are
believe to be in the complex here's more
from our correspondent yanel who's in
Jerusalem
we're still relying on some eyewitness
accounts from inside the hospital uh
that tell us how in the dead of night
Israel forces entered um there were they
say uh six tanks that went through into
the front of the compound U more than
100 Commandos some of them masked who
were shouting in Arabic don't move don't
move as they entered the emergency
department um this account from an
eyewitness whose um report we can't
independently verify at the moment um
but you know it's very clear that
Israeli forces are on the premises
working there there was also um someone
from the Hamas ran Health Ministry who
was speaking a short time ago in another
television interview who said that
Israeli forces had gone down into the
basement of the hospital this of course
is where Israel has been saying
consistently that it believes that Hamas
has an underground uh tunnel complex
it's been using as well as some of the
buildings of the hospital um it says as
a kind of command and control center
that is denied by Hamas but also um by
the medics who work at the hospital um
yesterday interestingly the US for the
first time uh came out and said that it
had its own intelligent sources uh
corroborating those claims from the
Israelis uh we haven't seen any sort of
visual proof up to now um made public uh
that this is the case um but the White
House also said that hospitals and
patients must be protected Ed and we
think that within the shiffer hospital
right now there are accounts vary but
between 2 and 4,000 people uh the
biggest number are people who went there
originally uh to take shelter but there
are also of course doctors and and
patients who are being treated uh some
of them very vulnerable uh including
more than 30 premature babies who were
taken off of the uh out of incubators
because of the lack of power um and
that's been a big focus of intern
National concern with suggestions they
could be evacuated that haven't um
really come to any fruition Israel has
been saying consistently that it is
willing to allow staff and patients uh
to flee from the shiffer hospital in
recent days because this standoff has
been going on for some time uh but what
Palestinians have said is that Israeli
forces fired at some of those people um
who were leaving that it was too
dangerous also to move those most
vulnerable
patients well that was the BBC's your
land now in Jerusalem well for more on
this story let's go live now to Juliet
tumor director of communications for the
UN works and relief Agency for Palestine
uh refugees and uh Juliet I just want to
start by asking you what you make of
events happening at aifa
today we are watching with horor we're
watching these reports with absolute
horror uh medical facilities should be
protected at at all times but this is
yet another indication that no place is
safe and no place including civilian
infrastructure like hospitals like un
facilities have not they've not been
spared during this war and Julius I want
to ask you about uh something
specifically to do with the UN in Gaza
we're getting reports from Reuters news
agency that a source a humanitarian Aid
source has said Israel has given
approval for 24,000 lers of diesel fuel
to be used by trucks for un operations
in the Gaza Strip can you confirm this
no I cannot confirm this I like you saw
the Reuters report and uh I can confirm
that no fuel has come into Gaza to dat
perir the statement that we put out last
night we confirmed that no fuel has come
into Gaza since The War Began it's been
five weeks now and in fact we at anra
are on the verge of uh having a
significant reduction in our operations
and in some cases if we do not get fuel
um we will be forced to stop some of our
operations that are life saving so but
is there are there ongoing negotiations
is there a possibility that an
announcement could come soon allowing
you to get fuel into the Gaza Strip
there has been negotiations for many
many long weeks now about the issue of
fuel it is very simple fuel has been
used as a weapon of war in uh in in Gaza
people have been deprived of basic
Services due to the lack of fuel we at
anra have been calling to get an urgent
shipment of fuel for the past three
weeks and it has been falling on deaf
ears and this is obviously putting a lot
of pressure on us as the largest
humanitarian agency to do our work
without fuel we cannot work it's very
simple it's very very simple just tell
us about the humanitarian situation in
Gaza we know what's happening in the
north the ongoing fighting in the South
we hear it was a particularly rainy
night and it was quite difficult for a
lot of people there in Gaza
overnight yes look the rain is going to
make um really desperate situation far
worse um including for people who have
been displaced which is now more than
34s of the Gaza population they have
been forced to leave their homes 800,000
of those are in un shelters they are
overcrowded we do not not have fuel
again so we cannot provide things like
heating or clean water this is why it's
absolutely critical that fuel comes in
and it's not a one-off shipment by the
way there needs to be shipments of fuel
on a regular basis on a daily basis and
the amount that we need to run the
largest humanitarian operation in the
Gaza Strip